---
layout: post
title:  "New Humans"
date:   2018-06-30 07:16:00
categories: Frankenstein 23andMe OKCupid
---

What would it mean to create new entities in a virtual space? And how would we interact with them? From our original vision of creating the un-scrapable aspects of human lives, we shifted our focus to a different objective. There were three datasets that we were interested in using to capture a human profile both objectively and subjectively: biometric, genetic and dating profile datasets. Biometric and genetic datasets represent data types that are measurable in a standardized manner, whereas the dating profiles are open for many interpretations. As we looked through the datasets acquired in public domain, we learned that using them together is key in creating a rich and holistic picture of an individual. Nonetheless, the entities in these datasets are not linked, so we had to recalibrate our artistic interpretation to overcome this challenge.

By meshing the different aspects of these anonymized people and their characteristics randomly, we attempt to create new hybrid profiles of entities that only exist in the virtual space. The goal is to create artistically and philosophically meaningful profiles to use as a basis for our art piece. However, the hybrid profiles do not have to conform to the conventions and rules of our material world just as the new alien races in Star Trek differ from humans. In this artistic work, we rely on our creativity to customize these new hybrid profiles in a similar way to the hosts in Westworld created by the Delos engineers. 
Regarding the datasets, we encountered a challenge that the data was text-based and hard to abstract. In order to produce high level representations, we pre-processed the datasets by matching keywords in the descriptive texts and categorizing accordingly. Moreover, the datasets contain very little visual elements, so we decided to add image-based datasets. As a result, we are using the 23andMe, Okcupid, and public face image datasets as the source for new hybrid profiles.

After creating the new hybrid profiles, we want to augment the work by forcing the entities to interact with each other by looking for their matches and creating clusters among themselves. From appearance to education level, we as humans use many different measures to judge our potential partner’s compatibility with ourselves. In the coming weeks, we plan to implement a model that can hone in on a few specific measures to match the entities in the virtual space.